øøø     This  case is about confusion in the financial services marketplace. Confusion felt by Chuck Ellis about financial services and their confusing advertisements. He doesn't know which institution to choose. So Chuck decides to consult his friend Beverly to see if she could clear up Chuck's confusion. Come to find out though, Beverly's advice did not help Chuck at all. He felt leary of Beverly's advice and how she handled her finances. You see, Chuck believes a little effort put forth can result in wise financial services. While on the other hand, Beverly does not put much planning into her financial decisions and bases much of her choices on convenience.ø     At this point I would like to raise some questions and provide some answers. First of all, how does each of their viewpoints regarding the choice of selecting and using financial services reflect the importance of opportunity cost and is either of their viewpoints any better than the other? Well let me begin be saying that any time a decision is made there is opportunity cost involved and some are weighed more than another. Beverly's opportunity costs are based strictly upon convenience. She made her choice based on how close to her job is her financial service located. Beverly also adds that it is not worth the effort you give to those institutions which have higher interest rates and/or charge different fees. Chuck however, is basing his opportunity costs on which services will earn him more money on his accounts. It is not to say that one viewpoint is better than the other, each is correct however I feel that Chuck has put more thought into his planning and therefore will make the wiser decision.ø     How about a person's use of financial services influence his or her success in financial planning? Well here the answer is simple. If a person chooses a service that offers many pluses for a nominal fee and the individual doesn't have the opportunities to use them then he or she will be losing money. The same thing goes if a savings account pays a lower interest rate or a checking account has a service charge on a minimum balance or incurs other fees then it not wise to choose this service because over time the invester will lose money. If a person chooses an institution that pays a high interest rate and has interest earning checking accounts then they will benefit them. They will earn more money and can therefore put some of their earnings into other financial services.ø     The financial service adds that Cuck read were not that helpful. Since they are advertisements they are designed to grab the readers attention. They are created to benefit the institution by making their product or services look appealing to the consumer. In some of the adds there are some "hidden" applications. Chuck would benefit more by going to these various services and doing some shopping. He should learn more about the specific restrictions and applications that are required with each deal. He will probably learn that there is more than meets the eye to these advertisements.ø     Is and how important are interest rate amounts in choosing a savings plan or financial institution?  The answer is very important. According to my personal finance book interest rates affect financial planning from two different angles. One way is that it will effect the amount of return on your savings and investments. The other is risk premium. Risk plays a major part in how much you will pay as a borrower. "Interest rates are central to most financial decisions as they represent the trade-off between the use of funds for future income and its use for future payments" (Kapoor, 17).ø     What are the considerations that should influence an individual's selection of the place and type of their checking account? Well the inflential factors are numerous. Let's look at them step by step. First there are restrictions. These restrictions include the most important factor of the minimum amount that can be held in order to avoid a service charge or earn interest if it is an interest earning checking account. Other restricting factors include location, business hours, holding period on deposited checks, and federal insurance. Next there is the category of fees and charges. Things to look for include monthly fees, fees for each check, deposit, stop payment, etc., Fees for overdraft or fund transfer. Still we have factors such as special services that can help one make a decision. Some of these special services include direct deposit, 24-hour automatic teller machines, discounts or free checking for special groups. And finally for interest-earning checking accounts there are interest rates paid, method of compounding, and fee charged for falling below a set balance in order to earn interest. These are some of the considerations that should help a person decide a financial service. Yet there are also personal factors involved.ø     Convenience is own issue of using one financial institution for both savings and checking accounts. However there are some situations where it might be necessary to facilitate the use of more than one financial institution. One situation may involve the use a money market fund. A money market fund involves the combination of a savings plan and an investment program. The investment company uses your money to puchase other financial investments or instruments and then pays you back on the interest earned on their investments. These type of institutions usually pay a higher interest rate than commercial banks, but they have a higher risk involvement because they are not federally insured.ø     I hope I answered some questions that made Chuck's situation more clear to the reader and I hope I clarified any confusing issues you may have had about financial services. After all a person's financial management is affected by the financial service he or she chooses. 